---
layout: post
title: "Aptivaa Final Placement Experience"
date: 2024-10-30 00:00:00 +0530
categories: final placement experience
---

**Student Name:** Mallampeta Kruthik  

**Current Course:** MSQE  

**Degree Before Masters:** Masters in Physics  

**Company Name:** Aptivaa  
**Job Role:** Risk Analyst  
**Duration of the Job Role:** Full time  

**Hiring Process Overview:**  
Only one round of interview after CV shortlisting

**Questions Asked in Online Aptitude Test (if applicable):**  


**Number of Interview Rounds:**  
1

**Questions Asked in Round 1:**  
Asked some questions about family and education background.

Why did you join MSQE after a Masters in Physics?

Why are you interested in Statistics? (I had mentioned interest in Statistics when they asked about why I joined ISI).

Generally people with taller height can see more, but I am saying that people with shorter heights can see more (with tall and short people on the same platform), comment on it
(the answer was selection bias in hypothesis testing)

Asked me to sell a water bottle to them (they wanted to guage the thought process, approach and thinking capacity of the candidate and expected candidates to ask them questions before pitching the product, if you do not ask them questions they would likely reject you)

Will you prefer taking 10 crores right now or 1 lakh every month if given the choice? What factors are affecting your choice?

What are you going to do if you find that your dataset is imbalanced? Asked about insampling and out of sample techniques.

RBI has currently set very high interest rates, comment on it from the perspective of global economy (I answered that inflation is high in USA right now so their central bank has put high interest rates to combat inflation, meanwhile growth in India is very good despite global recession. If RBI decreases interest rates then international investors might take money out of India and put in USA to earn higher interest which might hamper India's growth)

Asked me questions about anime (I had mentioned watching anime as hobby in CV, interviewer possessed domain knowledge and asked me quite a few good questions for which I had to think)

If you have to give a presentation to investors and you find a mistake in the code which is forecasting the same expected growth that investors want to hear, what will you do about that mistake? Especially when there is not a lot of time left before presentation.

**Questions Asked in Round 2:**  


**Questions Asked in Further Rounds:**  


**Job Role Experience:**  


**Suggestions for Candidates (including resources, books, websites):**  
Learn Statistics (MSQE students especially should learn basics about sampling as it is not taught in the course) and basic ML well.

**Additional Resources:**  


**Previous Job Role (if applicable):**  

