---
layout: post
title: "RBI Internship Experience"
date: 2025-03-08 00:00:00 +0530
categories: internship experience
---      

**Student Name:** Samparna  

**Current Course:** MSQE  

**Degree Before Masters:** BSc Economics   

**Company Name:** RBI  
**Job Role:** Summer Internship  
**Duration of the Job Role:** 2-3 Month Internship  

**Hiring Process Overview:**  
Online form application, opens in October on their webpage

**Questions Asked in Online Aptitude Test (if applicable):**  
No aptitude test

**Number of Interview Rounds:**  
1

**Questions Asked in Round 1:**  
From CV and your form submission
- why did you choose these (RBI depts.) as your preference? How can you contribute to them?
- from projects done previously questions relating to hypothesis, objective, conclusions, method of study, data collection, statistical tools and softwares used, relevance to real life, were asked. 
- extra-curriculars checked along with marks. 
- general terms if relevant/specified in the project. (eg. i had mentioned working capital and liquidity crunch for msmes in my project, they questioned on that)
- if you mention interest in any subject, questions relevant to them. (eg. i had mentioned trade and geopolitics, they asked questions on how the russia-ukraine war is affecting trade and will affect trade in near future given other updates)
- specify your statistical and coding abilities, and how familiar you are with modern technology and software used like stata, python, etc 

**Questions Asked in Round 2:**  


**Questions Asked in Further Rounds:**  


**Job Role Experience:**  


**Suggestions for Candidates (including resources, books, websites):**  
- read the rbi website before applying to know what depts are there and how you can contribute.
- don't bluff about your projects, they will ask very in-depth questions about the statistical processes used. 

**Additional Resources:**  


**Previous Job Role (if applicable):**  

